the White House says President Joe Biden
spoken to Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on the phone and
Netanyahu has again reiterated that
Israel will not Institute a
ceasefire well there will be no uh
ceasefire General ceasefire in Gaza
without the release of our hostages as
far as tactical little pauses an hour
here and hour there we've had them
before I suppose uh we'll check the
circumstances in order to enable uh
Goods humanitarian Goods to come in or
our hostages uh individual hostages to
leave but I don't think there's going to
be a general ceasefire we're going to
speak to Saka she's joining us from
occupied East Jerusalem Sarah what more
do we know about this
conversation yeah well prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has been saying this
for a while that there wouldn't be a
full ceasefire at any point throughout
this war um and this was the
conversation that he had also with the
US President Joe Biden over overnight in
a phone call that was made where the
White House said they discussed um this
uh potential uh pause tactical pause
they've called it where it would only be
for a small amount of time a small
window that would not only allow people
from the north that we've been seeing
move to the South but also to allow more
humanitarian Aid in the US has said many
times that it supports Israel not having
a full ceasefire but it's pushing for
these temporary pauses to allow more
humanitarian Aid in for example however
the caveat here is is that Israel even
in that interview um had said with this
interview was with ABC uh news in
Australia where he did say that maybe an
hour here or an hour there but the the
condition is is that there would be full
release of all of those being held
captive so it sounds like from what he's
saying is that the only time they would
consider this is that the captives would
all be freed and it would only be during
that period of freeing them that there
would be a pause Israel has maintained
that their concern is that and this is
the same with the US that if there was a
longer ceasefire let's say a day or two
that this would give Hamas time to
regroup and get together and Implement a
plan to fight uh the Israeli forces they
already say they have a strong momentum
as they move further into uh gaza's City
and that they want to continue to
maintain that Sak kot talking to us from
occupied East Jerusalem s thank you very
much we're going to talk to Rob Reynolds
now he's in Washington DC we're going to
get the US angle on this um Rob in that
conversation that uh that interview
rather um I understand that uh Benjamin
Netanyahu has suggested that Israel may
take on the control of Gaza quote
indefinitely uh that seems to be going
against what the US and Joe Biden has
been saying pretty much from day one
they were suggesting that Israel should
not be involved with it just talk us
through what's going on
there well the the two sides are are
definitely not on the two countries are
definitely not on the same page here Rob
with uh Netanyahu implying some kind of
uh uh indefinite takeover of the
security of Gaza uh you know and and a a
different or heightened form of
occupation of Gaza with the White House
at the same time uh emphasizing that
it's important that that the Palestinian
people in Gaza not uh be forced out or
or forcibly displaced from uh from that
territory uh in the call uh earlier
today between the president and prime
minister Netanyahu uh Biden did mention
the idea of this tactical pause as as
Sarah was mentioning um later on as uh
as Netanyahu spoke to uh uh American
Media he said that it's possible that
there could be short uh pauses an hour
here an hour there he he said in in his
words but uh definitely ruled out any
kind of a ceasefire so uh while the
president has not come down on the side
of a ceasefire he is receiving a lot of
pressure from the left wi of his party
uh and from uh other nations uh allies
uh to to come out more forcefully uh to
uh ask or demand from Netanyahu that
some sort of ceasefire be put in place
but you see here in this instance even
though the United States uh is the the
main donor of of weapons and money to
Israel with $3.8 billion dollars per
year of of Grant Aid uh and a huge
package of Aid moving through the
Congress now uh and the weapons being
supplied uh that the president just
doesn't have as much leverage as one
might think he would have over prime
minister of Netanyahu and the Israeli
government and in terms of Leverage
Let's Talk About Us Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin of course he's been on a
diplomatic tour of the gulf regions
talking to leaders of Arab countries but
hasn't really returned with anything
tangible as far as I can
see well I guess it depends upon what
you you envision as what his goal were
what what secretary blinken's goals were
um I think the primary goal there was to
send a message to Iran that the United
States and the uh uh Arab nations in the
region uh will not countenance a
widening of the War uh opening up of of
new fronts in the war so it was really a
warning to Iran coupled of course with
the uh addition of a US nuclear
submarine being brought into the area
which was a pointed sort of military uh
uh signal to Iran as well so if by uh
coming home with nothing you mean he
didn't get any uh U uh tangible results
from his meetings for example in Turkey
uh about uh uh new commitments or
anything of like like that that that is
true but Bel below the surface as
blinkin himself said just because
nothing is visible doesn't mean that
something isn't happening or that some
progress isn't being made Rob thanks
very much Rob renold's talking to us
from Washington
DC